In this video you're going to learn how to create a list of 20 video ideas in less than five minutes
just by doing some competitor research on YouTube.
So if you'd like to get this spreadsheet that you can see on screen I put the link to it in the resources
section of this video and you can come in here just click file and make coffee so that you can get a
copy that you can edit for yourself.
It's a pretty simple spreadsheet to be honest.
So you could probably just make this up yourself.
The point is that we want to fill this out by looking at our competitors on YouTube.
If you're not sure who your competitors are what are you going to do is type in a product name topic
name or service name.
So for example let me just take as an example our product.
Beard oil.
No I personally don't have a beard but I think it is kind of an interesting topic to look at.
Now while we can see here are a list of videos of people who've created videos of bad beard oil.
And I think this is a great way to start thinking my video ideas because you can really see already
that type of videos that people have created around this product name or key word.
So just simply water is beard oil and how to apply it.
122 thousand views.
I mean that's a pretty simple video that you could make and attract potential customers.
So what I'm going to do is just really take the title of this video and just start to paste it into
my list.
Now I'm not going to be definitely copying these videos Exactly.
The purpose of this exercise is just to get a sense of the type of videos that they could make.
Now you can see that this is kind of an educational video rather than an entertaining one or a story
brand telling video.
And so we can start to get a sense of what are the type of videos that we could make now.
Great tip is once you find a channel that you think might be similar to what you're doing is you can
come in to the channel have a look at all of their videos and come in and sort those videos by the most
popular.
And now all of a sudden you've got even looking at the top two rows 10 guaranteed video ideas that you
could use to talk about your product or talk to your target market.
And I would be interested in that type of product.
And once again you can look through this maybe not every single one of these videos is going to be something
that you could do.
But when there is one you could really just am you know head trauma at home.
This is educationalist tutorials time type video.
I think something I could easily do if I was getting into this type of business.
And so it's good just to take that you role then as well so you can come back and look at this later.
Now let's have a look at another example.
Just to really show how easy this is to get a ton of video ideas from competitors.
So let's take another product.
This is actually something I was looking for or something I was looking on YouTube for and it's just
wall filler it's something to fill a hole in a wall with it and you can see that there are some a lot
of areas where this head to fill holes in the cracks and walls preparing walls her painting to fill
a crack in the wall to fix small holes so you can see again these are educational type videos where
people are showing the target audience how to do something and then once again the product is kind of
central to that.
They say no if you want to get it pick it up in the store or click the link in the description.
So once again for this type of product we could just take this once again we don't want to copy these
videos exactly we just want to get a sense of what are the type of videos that we could make and you
can come into the channel once again come into the videos type come in to sort by most popular and you
can see some of the other videos that are related that could pull that audience.
And if you have products or services or knew about that topic like that and actually you can just copy
those in so you can see.
Most likely here these are the same product being featured but just showing how to do two different
things with it or really appealing to different things that people will be typing in to YouTube.
So it's very simple educational style videos and let's have a look at something completely different
maybe our product maybe like more like a just an online tutorial.
So let's have a look at photoshop.
So again you can just type that in a pop to channel straightaway photoshopped toils Ignus how good these
guys come into their videos.
Come in to nice popular.
Now each row has five videos.
You can see one two three four five six seven eight nine.
I mean you this 50 probably 100 video ideas here that you can just take notes and in your spreadsheet
and all of a sudden you have got your video ideas mapped out for the next year or so.
So coming in looking at competitive Challen channels I think it's just the greatest way to quickly understand
what are the types of videos that you could make that are proven to get views because the video like
this gets 2.9 million views.
You can be guaranteed that if you make a video on that topic you can maybe add your own twist.
You can focus on maybe a particular feature of that something that you can do a little bit different
can really pick up a huge amount of use as well gets you ranking the search engines and attracting all
of those potential customers.
So now it's your turn.
Come into YouTube.
Paste in your topic name your product name or your service name into the search bar.
Have a look at those competitors that come up in the top of the search results come into their channel.
Have a look at their videos and sort by the most popular so you can get a ton of video ideas in less
than five minutes and pop them into that spreadsheet.
If you want to note them down.